SUPPLEMENTARY ADDENDUM TO AWS DATA PROCESSING ADDENDUM
The purpose of this supplementary addendum (this “Addendum”) is to outline supplemental measures
that AWS takes to protect Customer Data. This Addendum supplements, but does not modify, the AWS
Data Processing Addendum available at https://d1.awsstatic.com/legal/aws-dpa/aws-dpa.pdf, or other
agreement between Customer and AWS governing the processing of Customer Data (the “DPA”). Unless
otherwise defined in this Addendum, all capitalized terms used in this Addendum will have the meanings
given to them in the DPA.
1.

Requests for Customer Data
1.1 If AWS receives a valid and binding order (“Request”) from any governmental body
(“Requesting Party”) for disclosure of Customer Data, AWS will use every reasonable effort to
redirect the Requesting Party to request Customer Data directly from Customer.
1.2 If compelled to disclose Customer Data to a Requesting Party, AWS will:
(a) promptly notify Customer of the Request to allow Customer to seek a protective order or
other appropriate remedy, if AWS is legally permitted to do so. If AWS is prohibited from
notifying Customer about the Request, AWS will use all reasonable and lawful efforts to obtain
a waiver of prohibition, to allow AWS to communicate as much information to Customer as
soon as possible; and
(b) challenge any overbroad or inappropriate Request (including where such Request conflicts
with the law of the European Union or applicable Member State law).
1.3 If, after exhausting the steps described in Section 1.2, AWS remains compelled to disclose
Customer Data to a Requesting Party, AWS will disclose only the minimum amount of Customer
Data necessary to satisfy the Request.

2.

Data Subject Rights. Nothing in this Addendum restricts Customer’s data subjects from exercising
their rights under Applicable Data Protection Law. This includes, if applicable, a data subject’s rights
to compensation from AWS for material or non-material damage under, and in accordance with,
Article 82 of the GDPR.

3.

Warranty. AWS agrees and warrants that it has no reason to believe that the legislation applicable
to it, or its sub-processors, including in any country to which Customer Data is transferred either by
itself or through a sub-processor, prevents it from fulfilling the instructions received from Customer
and its obligations under this Addendum and the DPA and that in the event of a change in this
legislation which is likely to have a substantial adverse effect on the warranties and obligations
provided by this Addendum and the DPA, AWS will promptly notify the change to Customer as soon
as AWS is aware, in which case Customer is entitled to suspend the transfer of Customer Data and/or
terminate the Agreement.

4.

Entire Agreement; Conflict. Except as supplemented by this Addendum, the DPA and the
Agreement will remain in full force and effect. This Addendum, together with the DPA and the
Agreement: (a) is intended by the parties as a final, complete and exclusive expression of the terms
of their agreement, and (b) supersedes all prior agreements and understandings between the
parties with respect to the subject matter hereof. If there is a conflict between the DPA and this
Addendum, the terms of this Addendum will control.
Page 1 of 1

