Miro Data Processing Addendum
This Data Processing Addendum ("DPA") is entered into between RealtimeBoard, Inc. dba Miro
("Miro" or "data importer") and the entity identified as the Customer ("Customer" or "data
exporter") and is appended to either (i) the Miro Cloud Agreement or Terms of Service (as
applicable); or (ii) other electronic or written agreement in incorporating this DPA, governing the
Customer's access and use of the Miro platform and related services (the "Agreement"). The
parties agree that this DPA shall be incorporated into and form part of the Agreement and
subject to the provisions therein.
This DPA sets forth the terms and conditions under which Miro may receive and process
Customer Personal Data from Customer and incorporates the Standard Contractual
Clauses. If Customer makes any deletions or revisions to this DPA, those deletions or
revisions are hereby rejected and invalid, unless agreed by Miro. Customer's signatory
represents and warrants that he or she has the authority to bind the Customer to this
DPA. This DPA will terminate automatically upon termination of the Agreement, or as
earlier terminated pursuant to the terms of this DPA.
Data Processing Terms
1.

Definitions
"​ Applicable Privacy Law(s)" means all worldwide data protection and privacy laws and
regulations applicable to the Personal Data in question, including, where applicable,
EU/UK Data Protection Law.1
"​ Customer Personal Data" means any Customer Content that is Personal Data and
protected by Applicable Privacy Law(s).
"​ EU/UK Data Protection Law" means: (i) Regulation 2016/679 of the European
Parliament and of the Council on the protection of natural persons with regard to the
Processing of Personal Data and on the free movement of such data (General Data
Protection Regulation) (the "EU GDPR"); (ii) the GDPR as saved into United Kingdom
law by virtue of section 3 of the United Kingdom's European Union (Withdrawal) Act
2018 and the UK Data Protection Act 2018 (collectively the "UK GDPR"); (iii) the EU
e-Privacy Directive (Directive 2002/58/EC); (iv) the Swiss Federal Data Protection Act
("Swiss DPA"), and (v) any and all applicable national data protection laws made under,
pursuant to or that apply in conjunction with any of (i), (ii) (iii) or (iv); in each case as may
be amended or superseded from time to time;
"Miro Subsidiary" means any entity that is directly or indirectly controlled by, controlling
or under common control with Miro.
"Restricted Transfer" means: (i) where the EU GDPR applies, a transfer of Personal
Data from the EEA to a country outside of the EEA which is not subject to an adequacy
determination by the European Commission; (ii) where the UK GDPR applies, a transfer
of Personal Data from the United Kingdom to any other country which is not subject

1

Applicable Privacy Laws may also include, as applicable, the California Consumer Privacy Act, the California Consumer Privacy
Rights Act, the Australian Privacy Act 1988, and the Japanese Act on the Protection of Personal Information

DPA (Web Version)

©Miro 2021

17JAN2023

based to adequacy regulations pursuant to Section 17A of the United Kingdom Data
Protection Act 2018; and (iii) where the Swiss DPA applies, a transfer of Personal Data
from Switzerland to any other country which is not determined to provide adequate
protection for Personal Data by the Federal Data Protection and Information
Commission or Federal Council (as applicable).
"Standard Contractual Clauses" means: (i) where the EU GDPR or the Swiss DPA
applies, the contractual clauses annexed to the European Commission's Implementing
Decision (EU) 2021/914 of 4 June 2021 ("EU SCCs"); and (ii) where the UK GDPR
applies, standard data protection clauses for processors adopted pursuant to Article
46(2)(c) or (d) of the UK GDPR (specifically, the International Data Transfer Addendum
to the EU Commission Standard Contractual Clauses) ("UK SCCs"), as applicable in
accordance with Section 8 (Data Transfers).
"Security Incident" means any unauthorized or unlawful breach of security leading to
the accidental or unlawful destruction, loss, alteration, unauthorized disclosure or access
to Customer Personal Data. A "Security Incident" shall not include unsuccessful
attempts or activities that do not compromise the security of Customer Personal Data,
including unsuccessful log-in attempts, pings, port scans, denial of service attacks, and
other network attacks on firewalls or networked systems.
"​ Subprocessor" means any processor engaged by Miro to process Customer Personal
Data.
​ he terms "Controller", "data subject", "Personal Data", "Processor," and
T
"processing," have the meanings given to them in Applicable Privacy Law(s). If and to
the extent that Applicable Privacy Law(s) do not define such terms, then the definitions
given in EU/UK Data Protection Law will apply.
2.

Role and Scope of Processing

2.1

The parties acknowledge that with regard to the processing of Customer Personal Data,
Customer shall be the Controller and Miro shall process Customer Personal Data as a
Processor on behalf of Customer.

2.2

Miro will process Customer Personal Data only in accordance with Customer's
documented instructions and will not process Customer Personal Data for its own
purposes, except as set out in this DPA or where required by applicable law(s). The
Agreement, including this DPA, along with Customer’s configuration of any settings or
options in the Services (as Customer may be able to modify from time to time),
constitute Customer’s complete and final instructions to Miro regarding the Processing
of Customer Personal Data, including for purposes of the Standard Contractual Clauses.
Additional Processing instructions (if any) require prior written agreement between the
parties.

2.3

Each party shall comply with its obligations under Applicable Privacy Law(s) in respect
of any Customer Personal Data it Processes under or in connection with the Services or
this DPA. Without prejudice to the foregoing, Customer is responsible for determining

DPA (Web Version)

©Miro 2021

17JAN2023

whether the Services are appropriate for the storage and processing of Customer
Personal Data under Applicable Privacy Law(s) and for the accuracy, quality and legality
of the Customer Personal Data and the means by which it acquired Customer Personal
Data. Customer further agrees that it has provided notice and obtained all consents,
permissions and rights necessary for Miro and its Sub-processors to lawfully process
Customer Personal Data for the purposes contemplated by the Agreement (including
this DPA).
2.4

Miro shall promptly notify Customer if it makes a determination that Customer's
instructions infringe Applicable Privacy Law(s) (but without obligation to actively monitor
Customer's compliance with Applicable Privacy Law(s)) and in such event, Miro shall not
be obligated to undertake such Processing until such time as the Customer has updated
its processing instructions and Miro has determined that the incidence of
non-compliance has been resolved.

2.5

Details of Data Processing:
(a)

Subject matter: The subject matter of the data processing under this DPA is the
Customer Personal Data.

(b)

Duration: As between Customer and Miro, the duration of the processing is the
term of the Agreement plus any period after the termination or expiry of the
Agreement during which Miro will process Customer Personal Data in
accordance with the Agreement.

(c)

Purpose: Miro will process Customer Personal Data as necessary to perform
the Services pursuant to the Agreement, as further instructed by Customer in its
use of the Services.

(d)

Nature of the processing: The provision of the Services as described in the
Agreement and initiated by the Customer from time to time.

(e)

Types of Customer Personal Data. Customer Personal Data uploaded to the
Services under Customer's Miro account.

(f)

Categories of data subjects: The data subjects could include Customer's
employees, consultants, agents and third parties authorized to use the Services
as "Users" under Customer's Miro account and any other data subjects whose
personal data is submitted to Miro by Customer through the Services.

3.

Subprocessing

3.1

Customer grants Miro a general authorization to subcontract the processing of Customer
Personal Data to a Subprocessor, including those Subprocessors listed at
https://miro.com/static/legal/Miro-Current-Subprocessors-List.pdf
(or
such
other
successor URL) ("Subprocessor List").

3.2

If Miro engages a new or replacement Subproccessor, Miro will:

DPA (Web Version)

©Miro 2021

17JAN2023

(a)

update the Subprocessor List;

(b)

impose substantially the same data protection terms on any Subprocessor it
engages as contained in this DPA (including data transfer provisions, where
applicable); and

(c)

remain liable to Customer for any breach of this DPA caused by an act, error or
omission of such Subprocessor.

3.3

If Customer elects to be notified in writing 10 days prior to Miro engaging a new or
replacement Subproccessor, Customer must subscribe to such notifications via the
customer notification portal;

3.4

Customer may object to Miro’s appointment of any new or replacement Subprocessor
promptly in writing within thirty (30) days after receipt of notice in accordance with (3.2
(a)) and on reasonable grounds related to Subprocessor's ability to comply with
Applicable Privacy Law(s). In such case, the parties shall discuss Customer´s concerns
in good faith with a view to achieving a commercially reasonable resolution. If the parties
cannot reach such resolution, Miro shall have the right, at its sole discretion, to either not
appoint the disputed Subprocessor, or permit Customer to suspend or terminate the
applicable Order and/or the Agreement. These procedures are Customer’s exclusive
remedy and Miro’s entire liability for resolving Customer’s objections to Miro’s
appointment of Subprocessor’s under this DPA.

4.

Cooperation

4.1

Miro shall reasonably cooperate with Customer to enable Customer to respond to any
requests, complaints or other communications from data subjects and regulatory or
judicial bodies relating to the processing of Customer Personal Data, including requests
from data subjects seeking to exercise their rights under Applicable Privacy Law(s). In
the event that any such request, complaint or communication is made directly to Miro,
Miro shall, once it has identified the request is from or related to a data subject for whom
the Customer is responsible, pass this onto Customer and shall not respond to such
communication without Customer's express authorization (unless required to do so in
order to comply with applicable law(s)).

4.2

To the extent Miro is required under Applicable Privacy Law(s), Miro will assist Customer
to conduct a data protection impact assessment and, where legally required, consult
with applicable data protection authorities in respect of any proposed processing activity
that presents a high risk to data subjects.

4.3

Taking into account the nature of the processing, Customer agrees that it is unlikely that
Miro would become aware that Customer Personal Data transferred under the Standard
Contractual Clauses is inaccurate or outdated. Nonetheless, if Miro becomes aware that
Customer Personal Data transferred under the Standard Contractual Clauses is
inaccurate or outdated, it will inform Customer without undue delay. Miro will reasonably
cooperate with Customer to erase or rectify inaccurate or outdated Customer Personal
Data transferred under the Standard Contractual Clauses.

DPA (Web Version)

©Miro 2021

17JAN2023

5.

Data Access & Security Measures

5.1

Miro will ensure that any personnel tasked with the processing of Customer Personal
Data are subject to an appropriate duty of confidentiality (whether a contractual or
statutory duty) and that they process Customer Personal Data only for the purpose of
delivering the Services.

5.2

Miro will implement and maintain reasonable and appropriate technical and
organizational security measures with the aim of protecting Customer Personal Data
from Security Incidents in accordance with the measures listed in Annex II ("Security
Measures"). Customer acknowledges that the Security Measures are subject to
technical progress and development and that Miro may update or modify the Security
Measures from time to time, provided that such updates and modifications do not
degrade or diminish overall security of the Services.

6.

Security Incidents
In the event of a Security Incident, Miro shall inform Customer without undue delay and
will provide written details of the Security Incident to Customer, including the type of data
affected and the identity of affected person(s), once such information becomes known or
available to Miro. Miro shall, to the extent possible, provide timely information and
cooperation to Customer to allow Customer to fulfil its data breach reporting obligations
under Applicable Privacy Law(s) and shall take reasonable steps to remedy or mitigate
the effects of the Security Incident. The obligations herein shall not apply to Security
Incidents that are caused by the Customer or its users.

7.

Security Reports & Inspections

7.1

Upon request, Miro shall provide copies of any certifications, audit report summaries
and/or other relevant documentation it holds, where reasonably required by Customer to
verify Miro's compliance with this DPA.

7.2

While it is the parties' intention ordinarily to rely on Miro's obligations set forth in Section
7.1 to verify Miro's compliance with this DPA, following a confirmed Security Incident or
where a data protection authority requires it, Customer may provide Miro with thirty (30)
days’ prior written notice requesting that a third-party conduct an audit of Miro's
operations and facilities ("Audit"); provided that (i) any Audit shall be conducted at
Customer’s expense; (ii) the parties shall mutually agree upon the scope, timing and
duration of the Audit; (iii) the Audit shall not unreasonably impact Miro's regular
operations.

7.3

Any written responses or Audit described in this Section 7 shall be subject to the
confidentiality provisions of the Agreement. The parties agree that the audits described
in Clause 8.9 of EU SCCs shall be carried out in accordance with this Section 7
(Security Reports & Instructions).

DPA (Web Version)

©Miro 2021

17JAN2023

8.

Data Transfers

8.1

Customer Personal Data that Miro processes under the Agreement may be processed in
any country in which Miro, its Miro Subsidiaries and Sub-processors maintain facilities to
perform the Services, as further detailed in the Subprocessor List. Miro shall not process
or transfer Customer Personal Data (nor permit such data to be processed or
transferred) outside of EEA, Switzerland or UK, unless it first takes such measures as
are necessary to ensure the transfer is in compliance with EU/UK Data Protection Law.

8.2

The parties agree that, when the transfer of Customer Personal Data from Customer to
Miro is a Restricted Transfer, it shall be governed by
(a)

for transfers of Customer Personal Data subject to GDPR or the Swiss DPA, the
EU SCCs, which the parties hereby enter into and incorporate into this DPA, or

(b)

for transfers of Customer Personal Data subject to UK GDPR, the UK SCCs,
which the parties hereby enter into and incorporate into this DPA.

8.3

For the purposes of the Standard Contractual Clauses, the relevant annexes,
appendices or tables shall be deemed populated with the relevant information set out in
Annexes I, II and III. In the event that any provision of this DPA contradicts, directly or
indirectly, the Standard Contractual Clauses, the Standard Contractual Clauses shall
prevail.

8.4

If Miro adopts an alternative lawful data export mechanism for the transfer of personal
data not described in this DPA ("Alternative Transfer Mechanism"), the Alternative
Transfer Mechanism shall apply instead of any applicable transfer mechanism described
in this DPA (but only to the extent such Alternative Transfer Mechanism complies with
EU/UK Data Protection Law and extends to the territories to which the relevant
Customer Personal Data is transferred).

9.

Deletion & Return

9.1

Upon Customer's request, or upon termination or expiry of this DPA, Miro shall destroy
or return to Customer all Customer Personal Data in its possession in accordance with
Miro’s then-current data deletion timelines and policies, which may be requested by
Customer at any time. This requirement shall not apply to the extent that Miro is
required by any applicable law to retain some or all of the Customer Personal Data, or to
Customer Personal Data archived on back-up systems, which data Miro shall isolate and
protect from any further processing except to the extent required by such law. The
parties agree that the certification of deletion of Personal Data described in Clause 8.5
and 16(d) of EU SCCs shall be provided by Miro to Customer only upon Customer's
written request.

10.

California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA)

10.1

To the extent that Customer has users of the Services who are residents of the state of
California in the United States and the CCPA applies, the terms set forth in this Section
10 shall apply to this DPA.

DPA (Web Version)

©Miro 2021

17JAN2023

10.2

The following amendments shall be made to the definitions set forth in Section 1 of this
DPA:
(a)

“CCPA” means the California Consumer Privacy Act, Cal. Civ. Code § 1798.100
et seq..

(b)

“Business” has the meaning given to it in the CCPA.

(c)

“Service Provider” has the meaning given to in the CCPA.

10.3

For purposes of Customer Personal Data constituting “personal information” under the
CCPA, Customer is a Business and Miro is a Service Provider. Customer’s transfer of
Customer Personal Data to Miro is not a sale, and Miro provides no monetary or other
valuable consideration to Customer in exchange for Personal Data.

10.4

Miro agrees to comply with all applicable requirements of the CCPA, and if and to the
extent agreed between Customer and Miro in writing as set forth in this DPA.

10.5

As applicable to the Services, Miro shall reasonably assist Customer in responding (at
Customer’s expense) to any request from a data subject (including “verifiable consumer
requests”, as such term is defined in the CCPA), relating to the processing of Customer
Personal Data under the Agreement.

11.

General

11.1

Except for the changes made by this DPA, the Agreement remains unchanged and in full
force and effect. If there is any conflict between any provision in this DPA and any
provision in the Agreement, this DPA controls and takes precedence. With effect from
the effective date, this DPA is part of, and incorporated into the Agreement.

11.2

In no event does this DPA restrict or limit the rights of any data subject or of any
competent supervisory authority.

11.3

Any claim or remedy Customer may have against Miro, its employees, agents and
Subprocessors, arising under or in connection with this DPA (including the Standard
Contractual Clauses), whether in contract, tort (including negligence) or under any other
theory of liability, shall to the maximum extent permitted by law be subject to the
limitations and exclusions of liability in the Agreement. Accordingly, any reference in the
Agreement to the liability of a party means the aggregate liability of that party under and
in connection with the Agreement and this DPA together.

11.4

This DPA may not be modified except by a subsequent written instrument signed by
both parties.

11.5

This DPA shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the governing law and
jurisdiction provisions in the Agreement, unless required otherwise by Applicable Privacy
Law(s) or the Standard Contractual Clauses.

DPA (Web Version)

©Miro 2021

17JAN2023

11.6

If any part of this DPA is held unenforceable, the validity of all remaining parts will not be
affected.

DPA (Web Version)

©Miro 2021

17JAN2023

ANNEX I
A.

LIST OF PARTIES

MODULE TWO: Transfer controller to processor
Data exporter(s):
Name: The entity identified as the "Customer" in this DPA.
Address: The address for the Customer associated with its Miro account or otherwise specified
in the DPA or the Agreement.
Contact person’s name, position and contact details: The contact details associated with the
Customer's account, or otherwise specified in this DPA or the Agreement.
Activities relevant to the data transferred under these Clauses: The activities specified in Annex
1(B) below.
Role (controller/processor): Controller
Data importer(s):
Name: RealtimeBoard, Inc. dba Miro (“Miro”)
Address: 201 Spear Street, Suite 1100, San Francisco, CA 94105
Contact person’s name, position and contact details: legal@miro.com
Activities relevant to the data transferred under these Clauses: The activities specified in Annex
1(B) below.
Role (controller/processor): Processor
B.

DESCRIPTION OF TRANSFER

MODULE TWO: Transfer controller to processor
Categories of data subjects whose personal data is transferred:
Customer employees, consultants, agents and authorized third parties to use the Services as
"users" under Customer's Miro account and any other data subjects whose personal data is
submitted to Miro by Customer through the Services.
Categories of personal data transferred:
Name, email address and any other personal data submitted by Customer through the Services,
including as Customer Content
Sensitive data transferred (if applicable) and applied restrictions or safeguards that fully take
into consideration the nature of the data and the risks involved, such as for instance strict
purpose limitation, access restrictions (including access only for staff having followed

DPA (Web Version)

©Miro 2021

17JAN2023

specialised training), keeping a record of access to the data, restrictions for onward transfers or
additional security measures:
None; not permitted under the Miro prohibited use policy.
The frequency of the transfer (e.g. whether the data is transferred on a one-off or continuous
basis):
Customer Personal Data may be transferred on a continuous or one-off basis depending on the
Customer's use of the Services and the Customer's processing instructions.
Purpose(s) of the data transfer and further processing:
For Miro to provide, maintain and improve the Services provided to data exporter pursuant to
the Agreement.
The period for which the personal data will be retained, or, if that is not possible, the criteria used
to determine that period:
Miro will retain Customer Personal Data for up to 180 days after termination or expiry of the
Agreement.
For transfers to (sub-) processors, also specify subject matter, nature and duration of the
processing.
Duration:
The term of the Agreement plus any period after the termination or expiry of the Agreement
during which Miro will process Customer Personal Data in accordance with the Agreement.
Subject matter:
The subject matter of the data processing under this DPA is the Customer Personal Data.
Nature of the processing:
The provision of the Services as described in the Agreement and initiated by the Customer from
time to time.
C.

COMPETENT SUPERVISORY AUTHORITY

MODULE TWO: Transfer controller to processor
Identify the competent supervisory authority/ies in accordance with Clause 13:
The data exporter's competent supervisory authority will be determined in accordance with the
GDPR.

DPA (Web Version)

©Miro 2021

17JAN2023

ANNEX II
TECHNICAL AND ORGANISATIONAL MEASURES INCLUDING TECHNICAL AND
ORGANISATIONAL MEASURES TO ENSURE THE SECURITY OF THE DATA
MODULE TWO: Transfer controller to processor
Miro uses reasonable technical and organizational measures designed to protect the Service
and Customer Content as described in the Security Policy.
ANNEX III
Standard Contractual Clauses
(a) Subject to Section 8.2 of this DPA, where the transfer of Customer Personal Data
to Miro is a Restricted Transfer and GDPR or the Swiss DPA require that
appropriate safeguards are put in place, the transfer shall be governed by the EU
SCCs as follows:
(i)

Module Two (Transfer Controller to Processor) will apply;

(ii)

in Clause 7 (Docking Clause), the optional docking clause will apply;

(iii)

in Clause 9 (Use of Subprocessors), Option 2 will apply, and the time
period for prior notice of subprocessor changes shall be as set out in
Clause 3.2 of this DPA;

(iv)

in Clause 11 (Redress), the optional language to permit data subjects to
lodge complaints with an independent dispute resolution body will not
apply;

(v)

in Clause 17 (Governing Law), Option 1 will apply, and the EU SCCs will be
governed by Dutch law;

(vi)

in Clause 18(b) (Choice of forum and jurisdiction), disputes shall be
resolved before the courts of Amsterdam, the Netherlands; and

(b) where the transfer of Customer Personal Data to Miro is a Restricted Transfer and UK
GDPR requires that appropriate safeguards are put in place, the UK SCCs will apply in
accordance with paragraph (a) above.

DPA (Web Version)

©Miro 2021

17JAN2023

